= UniMIDI

== Summary

Platform independent realtime MIDI input and output for Ruby.

== Features

* Supports Linux, JRuby, OSX, Windows and Cygwin
* No compilation required
* Both input and output to and from multiple devices concurrently
* Agnostically handle different MIDI and SysEx Message types
* (OSX Only) Internally patch to other programs using IAC and {MIDI Patch Bay}[http://www.apple.com/downloads/macosx/audio/midipatchbay.html]

== Requirements

Using Ruby 1.9.2 or JRuby 1.6.1 (or newer) is strongly recommended.  JRuby should be run in 1.9 mode

One of the following libraries is required based on what platform you're using.  It should install automatically with the unimidi gem.  In some uncommon cases, they will all install

Platform

* JRuby: {midi-jruby}[http://github.com/arirusso/midi-jruby]
* Linux: {alsa-rawmidi}[http://github.com/arirusso/alsa-rawmidi]
* OSX: {ffi-coremidi}[http://github.com/arirusso/ffi-coremidi]
* Windows/Cygwin: {midi-winmm}[http://github.com/arirusso/midi-winmm]
	
== Install

  gem install unimidi
	
== Usage

==== Blog Posts

* {general tutorial}[http://tx81z.blogspot.com/2011/06/unimidi-platform-independent-realtime.html]
* {selecting a device}[http://tx81z.blogspot.com/2011/10/selecting-midi-device-with-unimidi.html]
* {internally patching in OSX}[http://tx81z.blogspot.com/2011/06/osx-unimidi-and-midi-patch-bay.html]
* {with MicroMIDI DSL}[http://tx81z.blogspot.com/2011/08/micromidi-ruby-dsl-for-midi.html]

In addition, some examples are included with the library

* {selecting a device}[http://github.com/arirusso/unimidi/blob/master/examples/select_a_device.rb]
* {input}[http://github.com/arirusso/unimidi/blob/master/examples/input.rb]
* {output}[http://github.com/arirusso/unimidi/blob/master/examples/output.rb]

{more...}[http://github.com/arirusso/unimidi/blob/master/examples]

== Tests

There are a set of tests which assume that an output is connected to an input.  You will be asked to select which input and output as the test is run.

The tests can be run using

  rake test

See below for additional notes on testing with JRuby

== Documentation

* {rdoc}[http://rdoc.info/gems/unimidi]

== Platform Specific Notes

==== JRuby

* You must be in 1.9 mode.  This is normally accomplished by passing --1.9 to JRuby at the command line.  For testing in 1.9 mode, use 
    jruby --1.9 -S rake test
* javax.sound has some documented issues with SysEx messages in some versions OSX Snow Leopard which do affect this library.

==== Linux

* libasound and libasound-dev packages are required
	
== Author 

{Ari Russo}[http://github.com/arirusso] <ari.russo at gmail.com>
		
== License

Apache 2.0, See the file LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Ari Russo  
